---
title: GCC for CMCC v2506.0.1-1
sidebar_label: v2506.0.1-1
---

# GlobalLink Connect Cloud for CoreMedia Content Cloud v2506.0.1-1

Approving the GlobalLink Connect Cloud integration for CoreMedia Content Cloud
v12.2506.0.1 along with a new feature for increasing polling frequency in
initial stages of GlobalLink submissions to get updates like a (Project
Director) submission ID early in the Workflow App.

## Summary :clipboard:

* **Adapted the connector to CoreMedia Content Cloud v12.2506.0.1.**

  This includes especially a migration to the new React based Workflow App
  in Studio-Client.

* **Settings Adjustments**

  * Fixed deep merges for settings from different sources.
  * New configuration option `downloadTranslationEarlyRetryDelay` to
    increase polling frequency in early stages of a submission.
  * Retry delays can now be specified in a human-readable format
    (like `30m` instead of `1800`).

## Upgrade Information :up:

* **Migration to React based Workflow App Required**

  If you are upgrading from a CMCC version prior to v12.2506.0.1, please
  ensure that you have followed the instructions in the release note
  [Custom Workflow API Changes (CMS-24826)](https://documentation.coremedia.com/cmcc-12/artifacts/2506.0/release-notes-webhelp/content/CMS-24826-1-2506.0.0.html)
  to adapt your custom workflow configurations.

* **Settings Adjustments**

  You may want to review your settings for the connector. For production use,
  though, all parsing is compatible to previous versions. You may want to
  consider using `downloadTranslationEarlyRetryDelay` and switching to
  human-readable retry delays (like `30m` instead of `1800`).

  **Mock Settings:** In case you relied on the mock connector for testing and
  demonstration of features, you should be aware that we dropped support for:

  * `mock.error`: This has been replaced by `mock.scenario`.
  * `mock.submissionStates`: This has been replaced by `mock.scenario`.

    If the prefabricated scenarios do not fit your needs, you need to implement
    your own `*Scenario` classes now, as the behavior configuration moved to
    Java classes.
 
## Improvements :sparkles:

### Studio-Client: Adapted to v12.2506.0.1 React Workflow App

Aligned the GCC integration with the replacement of the Workflow App based on
ExtJS with a React based app in CMCC v12.2506.0.1.

This incorporates the changes outlined in the release note
[Custom Workflow API Changes (CMS-24826)](https://documentation.coremedia.com/cmcc-12/artifacts/2506.0/release-notes-webhelp/content/CMS-24826-1-2506.0.0.html)

### Human-Readable Retry Delays

Using Spring's `DurationFormatterUtils` for parsing retry delays, you can now
use duration such as `30m` instead of `1800` (interpreted as seconds) at all
configuration locations. The example `gcc-workflow.properties` now use the
new syntax.

### Fix Settings Overrides

You may know, that settings for the GlobalLink connector can come from different
sources:

* the Spring Application Context,
* Global Settings (backed by a content item)
* Site-Specific Settings (backed by a content item)

For custom properties that make use of nested hierarchies, the merge algorithm
did not work as expected. With v2506.0.0-1 this has been fixed, so that
so-called _deep merges_  are now performed.

### New Configuration `downloadTranslationEarlyRetryDelay`

The new (optional) configuration option allows to increase the polling frequency
for submissions in early stages (thus, prior to reaching `Translate` state).
Its main purpose is to provide so-called _Project Director Submission IDs_
early, which may be relevant for editors to communicate with the translation
agency.

Related API Changes:

* **New Overridable Method `GlobalLinkAction.adaptDelayForGeneralRetry`**

  The method gets information to dynamically adjust the retry delay in normal
  retry scenarios (thus, it is not applied on escalations). It may consider the
  GlobalLink settings, action parameters, the result (like a missing PD ID for
  `DownloadFromGlobalLinkAction`) or issues.

* **New API `GlobalLinkAction.findRetryDelay`**

  For implementing adjusted retry delays in `adaptDelayForGeneralRetry` based on
  settings, a new method
  `findRetryDelay(settings: Settings, key: String):Optional<RetryDelay>` can be
  used.

* **New `Settings` API**

  New classes (`Settings` and `SettingsSource`) provide consistent access
  to settings from merged sources (context, global settings, site-specific
  settings). Methods in `GlobalLinkAction` that previously either calculated
  settings on their own or received a raw `Map<String, Object>` map got adapted
  to now use this wrapper class.

* **`DownloadFromGlobalLinkAction` overrides `adaptDelayForGeneralRetry`**

  The implementation makes some best guess, if more frequent polling is
  desirable (only if `downloadTranslationEarlyRetryDelay` is set).

### Automatically Adapting DefaultGCExchangeFacadeContractTest

The `DefaultGCExchangeFacadeContractTest` is used by CoreMedia to verify that
the connector works with a given GCC version. Prior to this version, the test
had hard requirements on the so-called _sandboxes_ set up by GlobalLink, like,
for example, requiring the locales `en-US` and `de-DE` to exist.

The test has been adapted to automatically adjust (as far as possible) to the
available sandboxes by reading the corresponding connector configuration.

As such, you should be able to also use this test outside CoreMedia's
infrastructure (for example, when approving a new GCC version or validating
new connector URLs you received).

For details how to use and set up the test, please refer to the contributors
section of the documentation.

The adapted test also provides options to run with different "profiles", i.e.,
by default it will use connection settings from `.gcc.properties` but also
`.gcc.cancelation.properties` can be used to test cancelation scenarios.
This is controlled via an optional parameter to annotation `@GccCredentials`.

### Third-Party Updates

#### Maven Ecosystem

* Awaitility updated to 4.3.0
* Added test-scope dependency `io.github.classgraph:classgraph` for scenario
  tests.

## Minor Changes :broom:

### Fix Conflicting Management of @jangaroo/publish

* `@jangaroo/publish` removed as `devDependency`

  Already when switching to CMCC v12.2412.0.0 we could have removed the
  dependency to `@jangaroo/publish` as described in the release note:
  [2412.0 Release Notes / Switched to pnpm workspace protocol](https://documentation.coremedia.com/cmcc-12/artifacts/2412.0/release-notes-webhelp/content/CMS-25787-1-2412.0.0.html).

  Removed the dependency now.

### Localize Due Date Display

The due date as shown in the Workflow App is now localized according to the
user's locale.

### Deprecation Checks

Building the workspace will now (by default) check for deprecated API usage.
To skip the check, path `-DskipChecks` when building. Fixed already existing
deprecated API usages along the way.

### Fixed Unintended Site-Specific Settings Source

While the intended location for site-specific settings is
`Options/Settings/Translation Services` relative to your site's root
folder, also a path `Settings/Options/Settings/Translation Services` got
probed. The latter was and is just meant for the global settings
`/Settings/Options/Settings/Translation Services`. Removed the latter option
as path for site-specific settings.

### Adapted DefaultGCExchangeFacadeContractTest

Enhanced the test (especially used when approving new GCC versions) to fail
early on unexpected failures when trying to trigger a cancellation.

Also, adapted the test to be reusable for connector configurations that are
not the same as used at the sandbox provided to CoreMedia (like different
locales configured, different file types). Thus, the test should now also
work outside of CoreMedia to validate the general expected API contracts
the CoreMedia GlobalLink Connect integration relies on.

**Key changes:**

* Introduces dynamic connector configuration awareness through
  `ConnectorsConfig` wrapper
* Replaces hardcoded test values with configuration-driven approaches using
  `XliffFixture`
* Adds profile-based configuration support for test-specific overrides
  (e.g., cancellation testing)

## Behind the Scenes :gear:

### Introducing Mock Scenarios

In previous versions, the behavior of the mock facade provided a fine-grained
yet complex configuration via properties like `mock.error` and
`mock.submissionStates`. This has been replaced by so-called _scenarios_ that
implement specific behaviors.

Prefabricated scenarios are provided for common use cases, but you can also
implement your own scenarios by implementing the `Scenario` interface. Find
a list of ready-to-use scenarios, for example, within the default
GlobalLink settings documented imported from `GlobalLink.xml`.

### Dropped Support for Per-Workflow Mock Behavior

As unused during CoreMedia's regular QA and approval process, we dropped
support for configuring the mock behavior per workflow process via magic string
`states:` in workflow subjects.

If you require this behavior, you may reintroduce it by implementing a custom
scenario (thus, implementing the new `Scenario` interface).

### New Branch Model

Starting with v2506.0.0-1 we switched from previous Gitflow workflow using,
for example, a `develop/` branch to a new model, that is better aligned with
maintaining multiple CMCC releases in parallel.

All release-tags will now reference commits on `maintenance/*` branches (unless
they are eventually archived). The `main` branch may now contain a state that
is not yet aligned with any specific CMCC version (most likely targeting the
next to-be-approved version).

### Introduce new GitHub Pages

* **GitHub Pages are deployed as static HTML pages**

  We use [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/) to deploy our new homepage.
  Sources for deploying the homepage are located in folder `website/`. It
  contains the (adapted) documentation that was originally at `docs/`.

  For a specific version's documentation it is best to run `pnpm start`
  locally for a given tag.

* **New Section _Contributors_**

  We separated the regular documentation for how to use or configure the
  connector from documentation that is relevant especially for contributors
  applying changes within this repository.

### Enabled Dependabot

Dependabot will now suggest updates for third-party dependencies in
`website/` (pnpm), `.github/` (GitHub actions) and in Maven dependencies
(excluding `com.coremedia.*` dependencies).
