---
title: GCC for CMCC v2506.0.0-1
sidebar_label: v2506.0.0-1
---

# GlobalLink Connect Cloud for CoreMedia Content Cloud v2506.0.0-1

Approve CMCC v12.2506.0.0.

:::caution CAUTION: Work in Progress
The approval for CMCC v12.2506.0.0 has not yet finished. This document
represents an intermediate state.
:::

## Summary :clipboard:

* Adapted the connector to CoreMedia Content Cloud v12.2506.0.0.

## Upgrade Information :up:

...

## Improvements :sparkles:

### CoreMedia Content Cloud v12.2512.0.0 Adaptations

* `@jangaroo/publish` removed as `devDependency`

  Already when switching to CMCC v12.2412.0.0 we could have removed the
  dependency to `@jangaroo/publish` as described in the release note:
  [2412.0 Release Notes / Switched to pnpm workspace protocol](https://documentation.coremedia.com/cmcc-12/artifacts/2412.0/release-notes-webhelp/content/CMS-25787-1-2412.0.0.html).

  Removed the dependency now.

### Human-Readable Retry Delays

Using Spring's `DurationFormatterUtils` for parsing retry delays, you can now
use duration such as `30m` instead of `1800` (interpreted as seconds) at all
configuration locations. The example `gcc-workflow.properties` now use the
new syntax.

### Fix Settings Overrides

You may know, that settings for the GlobalLink connector can come from different
sources:

* the Spring Application Context,
* Global Settings (backed by a content item)
* Site-Specific Settings (backed by a content item)

For custom properties that make use of nested hierarchies, the merge algorithm
did not work as expected. With v2506.0.0-1 this has been fixed, so that
so-called _deep merges_  are now performed.

### New Configuration `downloadTranslationEarlyRetryDelay`

The new (optional) configuration option allows to increase the polling frequency
for submissions in early stages (thus, prior to reaching `Translate` state).
Its main purpose is to provide so-called _Project Director Submission IDs_
early, which may be relevant for editors to communicate with the translation
agency.

Related API Changes:

* **New Overridable Method `GlobalLinkAction.adaptDelayForGeneralRetry`**

  The method gets information to dynamically adjust the retry delay in normal
  retry scenarios (thus, it is not applied on escalations). It may consider the
  GlobalLink settings, action parameters, the result (like a missing PD ID for
  `DownloadFromGlobalLinkAction`) or issues.

* **New API `GlobalLinkAction.findRetryDelay`**

  For implementing adjusted retry delays in `adaptDelayForGeneralRetry` based on
  settings, a new method
  `findRetryDelay(settings: Settings, key: String):Optional<RetryDelay>` can be
  used.

* **New `Settings` API**

  New classes (`Settings` and `SettingsSource`) provide consistent access
  to settings from merged sources (context, global settings, site-specific
  settings). Methods in `GlobalLinkAction` that previously either calculated
  settings on their own or received a raw `Map<String, Object>` map got adapted
  to now use this wrapper class.

* **`DownloadFromGlobalLinkAction` overrides `adaptDelayForGeneralRetry`**

  The implementation makes some best guess, if more frequent polling is
  desirable (only if `downloadTranslationEarlyRetryDelay` is set).

### Third-Party Updates

#### Maven Ecosystem

* Awaitility updated to 4.3.0

## Minor Changes :broom:

### Deprecation Checks

Building the workspace will now (by default) check for deprecated API usage.
To skip the check, path `-DskipChecks` when building. Fixed already existing
deprecated API usages along the way.

### Fixed Unintended Site-Specific Settings Source

While the intended location for site-specific settings is
`Options/Settings/Translation Services` relative to your site's root
folder, also a path `Settings/Options/Settings/Translation Services` got
probed. The latter was and is just meant for the global settings
`/Settings/Options/Settings/Translation Services`. Removed the latter option
as path for site-specific settings.

### Adapted DefaultGCExchangeFacadeContractTest

Enhanced the test (especially used when approving new GCC versions) to fail
early on unexpected failures when trying to trigger a cancellation.

## Behind the Scenes :gear:

### New Branch Model

Starting with v2506.0.0-1 we switched from previous Gitflow workflow using,
for example, a `develop/` branch to a new model, that is better aligned with
maintaining multiple CMCC releases in parallel.

All release-tags will now reference commits on `maintenance/*` branches (unless
they are eventually archived). The `main` branch may now contain a state that
is not yet aligned with any specific CMCC version (most likely targeting the
next to-be-approved version).

### Introduce new GitHub Pages

* **GitHub Pages are deployed as static HTML pages**

  We use [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/) to deploy our new homepage.
  Sources for deploying the homepage are located in folder `website/`. It
  contains the (adapted) documentation that was originally at `docs/`.

  For a specific version's documentation it is best to run `pnpm start`
  locally for a given tag.

* **New Section _Contributors_**

  We separated the regular documentation for how to use or configure the
  connector from documentation that is relevant especially for contributors
  applying changes within this repository.

### Enabled Dependabot

Dependabot will now suggest updates for third-party dependencies in
`website/` (pnpm), `.github/` (GitHub actions) and in Maven dependencies
(excluding `com.coremedia.*` dependencies).
