---
id: website
sidebar_label: Website
description: Hints for maintaining the website.
---

# Maintaining the Website

This website is generated by [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/). For most
documentation there is not much difference to normal Markdown files, but
browsing the existing documentation, thus, website sources, you will detect
some relevant differences.

For details on front matter, admonitions, etc. you best visit the comprehensive
Docusaurus documentation. In here, you will get just some extra hints on
customizations we have applied (like extra MDX components, reverse sorting
in categories and such).

## CMCC Version et al.

For convenience, we maintain the CMCC version information at a central
location:

* `src/ts/context.ts`

Having this, on new version approval, you most likely only need to adapt
the version information inside there.

## Reverse Sorting in Categories

Reverse sorting can be enabled by a custom property in the `_category_.json`
file, like it is done for the changelog:

```json
{
  "label": "Changelog",
  "position": 6,
  "link": {
    "type": "generated-index",
    "description": "Overview of changes to CoreMedia GlobalLink Connect Integration."
  },
  "customProps": {
    "sort": "descending"
  }
}
```

The setting `customProps.sort` is respected by a corresponding
`sidebarItemsGenerator` defined in the central documentation configuration
`docusaurus.config.ts`.

## Custom MDX Components

You find custom MDX components at `website/src/components` and registered in
`website/src/theme/MDXComponents.tsx`.

:::tip TIP: MDX Plugin
For syntax highlighting in MDX enabled files, you may want to use this
Visual Studio Code Plugin:

* [MDX - Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=unifiedjs.vscode-mdx)
:::

### Badge

Used to render a [Shields.io](https://shields.io/) badge within this
documentation:

```jsx
<Badge
  label="CoreMedia Content Cloud"
  style="for-the-badge"
  color="672779"
  message="2412.0"
/>
```

The advantage of using this badge is, that it can read the required version
information as provided by `src/ts/context.ts`.

### DocLink

Used to render links to
[documentation.coremedia.com](https://documentation.coremedia.com/)
respecting version information as provided by `src/ts/context.ts`:

```jsx
<DocLink path="coremedia-en/content/projectExtensions.html">
  Blueprint Developer Manual / Project Extensions
</DocLink>
```

### FileList

**This is not implemented as MDX Component.**

The only usage for now is to auto-generate a list of available license texts
for third-party dependency. Its usage is simpler than the implementation:

```jsx
<FileList directory="./files" exclude={["licenses.xml"]} />
```

It is implemented as a so-called "Remark plugin", which simulates an MDX
Component. It requires to be a plugin instead, because it requires access
to the file system for listing the files found.

### RepositoryLink

Used to render links to paths within this repository that respect the
version tags as defined in `src/ts/context.ts`:

```jsx
<RepositoryLink path=".github/workflows" title="workflows"/>
```

In its short form, it will just render the path itself as text:

```jsx
<RepositoryLink path=".github/workflows" />
```
